---
layout: project
title: "1992 Mazda MX-5 Miata 1.6L"
date: 2024-02-11
tags: [Miata, Automotive, Autocross, Trackday, HPDE]
feature: "/assets/img/posts/1992MazdaMX5Miata/MiataWashed.jpg"

---

>The Mazda Miata is considered the laymans Porsche Cayman... At least this is what I told my 17 year old self while working part time to afford purschasing my first car.

Growing up I was surrounded by publications of Import Tuner Magazine, reruns of the Fast and The Furious, and the awesome sounds of Eurobeat from the countless hours spent wathching stages of Initial D. Thanks to my brothers the love and passion for cars was something I partook in at an early age. Through out my childhood my fondest memories were had with cars from all shapes and sizes starting with die-cast 1:64 scale (hot wheels size), 1:32, and 1:24 (Jada) to the real deal helping my old man serivce the workhorse of the family a 1986 Nissan Hardbody (D21 Generation). Being able to do your own work; belts, alternators, spark plugs, brakes etc. all consumables and major work was a necessity in the early days. This was a determining factor of being able to make rent and have enough funds for groceries. This grind and struggle only deepend my love and knowledge, and sparked the need for my own project.

Through out my junior and senior year of High School I spent many hours reseaching forums to find the best entry point into the automotive world with asperations set on one day getting it on track. My criterias were striking a balance for handling, power to weight and ease of maintence. At the major cost of practicaility I set my sights on a the NA Mazda Miata.

Purchased in the fall of 2016 for $4,500 this one owner (Rest in Peace Old Man, whose spirit I believe still lives with this car) 140k miles special edition in beautiful brilliant black 1992 Mazda Miata became mine.

## My First Car!

{% capture images %}
{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/1992MazdaMX5Miata/MiataFirstImage.jpg
{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/1992MazdaMX5Miata/MiataInterior.jpg
{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/1992MazdaMX5Miata/MiataTanCoverZoomed.jpg
{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/1992MazdaMX5Miata/MiataSofttopTorn.jpg
{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/posts/1992MazdaMX5Miata/MiataWashed.jpg
{% endcapture %}
{% include gallery images=images caption="Images of the Miata after its first car wash. UV damaged soft top was removed, running hardtop only because...race car. First modification was installing the GV style front lip." cols=2 %}

## Special Edition Specs

* Engine: 1.6-liter **[DOHC](https://www.civicmotors.com/what-does-dohc-mean/)** 16-valve **[inline-four](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straight-four_engine)**
* Horsepower: 116 hp @ 6,500 rpm
* Torque: 100 lb-ft
* Transmission: 5-speed manual
* Drivetrain: Rear-wheel drive (RWD) with a limited-slip differential (LSD)

"Black Miata" was the special model designation which included Black exterior, tan leather interior, tan boot, tan top and the following: 

**Equipment:** power windows, includes all A package options (power steering, leather-wrapped steering wheel, alloy wheels, AM-FM/cassette stereo). **Optional C Package (Black Miata only):** Nardi wood shift knob and hand brake handle, stainless sill plates, BBS 14" alloy wheels, includes all other B package options (cruise control, headrest speakers, automatic antenna) **Options Included:** hardtop, ABS, air conditioning, compact disc player, limited slip differential

In 1992: Base MSRP: $17,050 and $1,400 for C package, plus $350 freight, plus options
